# YOUR PROJECT TITLE
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/tRpKsG7NGUo
#### Description:

My project is a web application that utilises a web scraper (BeautifulSoup) to scrape the web and find apprenticeship opportunities. I passed the URLs of the two main websites that are commonly used to search for apprenticeship opportunities: UCAS and GOV.uk. The web scraper is designed to identify specific HTML tags with designated class attributes, extracting details such as job title, salary, location, and deadlines for each listing. These details are then organised into dictionaries, with all listings returned as a list of dictionaries.

The core functionality of the web application is handled by `App.py`, which manages the routes of the application and processes different user requests. Based on whether the user submits a GET or POST request, specific functions are executed to handle the interaction.

On the main screen (“/” route)  the user is able to see the list of opportunities found by the scraper along with two forms. The first is the “Order by: “ form , this feature sends a POST request to the “/” route. Upon receiving this request the program reorders the listings using the built in sorted() function. The reversed parameter is set to True if the user has chosen the listings to be presented in descending order. I have used the datetime module to convert the deadline attribute for each listing into a format recognized by the sorted() function. This way I was able to accurately order the listings by deadline upon the user's request.

The second form on the main screen is the weekly newsletter signup feature. Users can input their email addresses, select how many listings they want to receive, and choose whether they want the listings prioritised by salary or deadline. Originally I had planned on creating a separate page using the “/register” route but chose to stay on the main screen for the sake of simplicity and ease of access. The form sends a “POST” request to the “/register” route, upon receiving the requests the program checks to see if the email and confirmation email are the same, if they are  the program checks if the email has already been saved in the database. If it has then the program updates the row with that email address changing the users preferences, if not a new row is created saving the email and the users preferences. 

I have used bootstrap and Jinja in my HTML files to introduce some logic and customisation to my webpage. Jinja was used to generate a bootstrap card element for each apprenticeship listing using a for loop. I have also used if statements using Jinja to establish pagination controls allowing the user to navigate between different pages to view the listings. Other customisation features include a custom footer that makes the page look more professional as well as a hover effect that adds a more interactive feel to my application which can improve user experience. I have highlighted important text to make it stand out more. The select menus have also been changed to make them more aesthetic.

The sendEmail.py selects all the emails saved in the database and iterates through them, constructing an email that includes the appropriate number of listings and priority, as specified by the user. I used the readmail module to send the emails as the other options are tried did not seem to work. To set up the weekly newsletter I used the windows task scheduler to run the sendEmail.py program at a certain time every week. However this method is not ideal for a larger number of users as for the task scheduler to function my device needs to be on so there could be some inconsistency in the timings of the email. To fix this I will need to run the program on a cloud based virtual machine such as Google Cloud or Azure to ensure that the program will be able to run regardless of whether or not my device is powered on.

Among the features I considered was adding a save feature that will allow the users to pin certain listings to the top. The listings would have to be saved to a new table in the database to be retrieved when the user opens the page. However due to the small amount of listings it seemed pointless as the user will typically only be required to navigate through 1 or 2 pages to find the apprenticeship they are looking for.

